the paradox may be that the debate is somewhat shifted from where it should be - attention economy, social media and the it industry as a whole. because of the data and energy used in machine learning, it's often easy to point to this as a problem, while in sum, machine learning actually increases emissions by


one of our customers has tens of thousands of servers, sampling every second - meaning they process time series data points every year approximately 10 terrabytes of data every year. all this data CAN be incredibly valuable to optimize industrial processes.

another application is the quality of cheese - analyzing data about the milk and other råvarer, vibrations in the cheese-making processes, one can predict the quality of the product, planning maintenance etc.

this is not what is commonly called IoT data - these sensors have been picking up signals for years before both machine learning and smartphone controlled light-bulbs, but the application have recently been improved

in certain applications, we have documented reduction in waste of about 60%, and greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. and while our data processing requires energy, i have no doubt that responsible use can help combat climate change and contribute to ecological safey

of course we always strive to increase the efficiency of our models, both for economical and ecological reasons. but in sum, we are helping industry and

what we are working with is often data that is being logged anyway, and trying to create value from it. the amount of data is of such a magnitude that humans would not be able to spot the patterns.

though the field of ai is becoming accessible to any lay-person with an internet connection, behind the scenes there is still a lot of trial and error.

another point worth mentioning is the fact that diminishing returns are not samlebånd??

can processes peak?
there are of course varying degrees of


cheese vat - one temp sensor, the more data, the more useful the models will be

in fisheries, hyperspectral imaging is used to measure everything from water quality to fatty tissues in individual salmon, but getting value from this data requires machine learning. a hyperspectral camera can pick up 256 bands of color, the human eye can process visible light in three.

better sensors will continue to generate more and more data, so the resources being used to process this and optimizing will inevitably increase.

not all applications are worth it. imagine hanging a picture on the wall with a 10 inch nail and buying a 10kg sledgehammer to get the job done - this is obviously not an efficient way of using it, so those of us working with this continuously attempt to make th
